Cha-chung!
-Ooph.
Why not pick on someone own size?
Barbarians!
-Huh?
Ah!
Hmm?
-Ah!
Hola, I am Picchu.
-Huh?
-Kick!
-I got you, little baby.
-Ha!
-Gracias, guerrero.
Gracias, Picchu!
-Taste my ax!
-Our son, fiercest of warriors!
Barbarians!
-Barbarians!
Ew, gross.
Ay, Papa. Ay, Mama.
Barbarians!
Who wants more of Picchu?
-Huh?
Worthy foe.
Huh?
-Oh!
-Agh.
You make Picchu mad!
Ay?!
Spare me, and I swear
you will never see me again.
-Hmm.
-Go. Never come back.
-Ah!
Battle over, son.
We win.
Good to show mercy, Picchu.
-We… We fight for noble cause.
To my brave son, Picchu,
mightiest of all barbarians!
To Picchu!
I love you, mijo.
-Love you too, mi puma.
Ew.
Hm.
Hmm…
Ay!
-Huh?
-Picchu let you go.
Why you do this?
A scorpion wanted to cross a river.
He asked for help from a frog,
but the frog refused,
fearing the scorpion's sting.
The scorpion promised
he would not sting the frog,
so the frog agreed,
allowed the scorpion onto his back,
and hopped across the river.
-Then the scorpion stung him.
As the frog lay dying, he asked,
"Why?"
And the scorpion replied,
"Because I am a scorpion."
Papa. Mama.
Why did I conquer your people?
Because I am a warrior.
Why did you show mercy?
Because you are a fool.
Mercy is weakness.
You do not deserve a warrior's death.
You will spend the rest of your days
knowing you cursed your family.
Rico!
-Ooh! I'm sorry! I didn't mean to! Oh!
-Whoa!
Whoa! Whoa!
-Chiapa!
-Ooh! Friend.
You're kind of broken, aren't you?
Mm-mm-mm. That's exactly my type.
-There's our way out.
-Huh?
Come on, Rico. Use some magic to--
Oh-oh-oh. Okay, okay.
Oh, Barbarian King?
Ha! Told you someone here, daughter.
Princess Maya of the Tecas?
-Barbarian Princess!
-Hello, Princess Maya.
Sorry you fell in booby trap
puma butt death hole.
-Papa!
We apologize
for dropping by unannounced,
Your Majesties.
Are these bones made out of clay?
-Real bones start to stink after a while.
Do we want this whole place
to smell like rotting meat?
-No!
-Yes. Huh?
-Daughter, we barbarians.
-Hmm.
Barbarians like rotting meat, like blood…
Uh…
What else do we like?
Barbarians like to battle!
Papa, I just think there's more to life
-than… …battle.
-You… You take that back!
We're wasting time.
-Daughter! Please.
-Come on, Papa.
-We have to finish packing.
-Princess hurt king's feelings.
You're free to go,
Princess Maya and companions.
Hold on. I have something
important to tell you.
The prophecy wasn't
about my father and my brothers.
Yeah. That probably why brothers all dead.
-Oh, that's-- that's harsh.
-Papa, that was savage.
Yes. Barbarian.
I know the truth about the prophecy now.
I am the Great Eagle.
And I need your greatest warrior to--
-Why are you packing?
-Duh.
-That gods coming to kill us all.
-I thought you liked to fight.
Ah, look here. Barbarians no speak good,
eh, but we not stupid.
So your entire kingdom is going to die?
It's the only way to survive.
-The mathematics are solid.
-It's not the only way.
If you want to fix things,
there's a logical solution.
-Let Lord Mictlan sacrifice you.
-Boom! Everything fixed!
Uh!
If he sacrifices me, he'll--
he'll become even more powerful.
You really want that?
He is the god of war.
King love to battle,
but a more powerful god of war?
Ooph.
No so good.
I can put a stop to this.
All I need is your greatest warrior,
the fiercest of all
the Golden Mountain Barbarians.
-And I have heard that it's you.
-Ooh.
Huh?
-What?
-Look at you.
Smart and strong.
Oh yeah. You look like
you can tear an alpaca in half
with one hand!
Pfft!
"Princess the greatest warrior."
She not even like to battle.
-I don't have time for battle.
-Argh!
We got no warrior for you.
-All warriors gone now.
-They're not all gone.
They all gone.
-Our greatest warrior is still here.
-Don't.
-Don't--
-Picchu.
-Picchu?
-Picchu already go through enough.
Where can I find this Picchu?
Mmm… Zip it.
On the Cliffs of Regret.
There, he fights the mist every day.
Gracias, princesa.
You're welcome, Princess.
Sorry. Sorry. Um, wow.
Um, did you just say he fights the mist?
Yes. Picchu fights the actual mist.
Okay. Like, um… Like--
Like, something is in the mist?
I'm just a bit confu--
I'm trying to get it.
Maya, maybe… Maybe you can help Picchu.
May the blood of your enemies
be milk to your young!
You know what?
This is the grossest blessing ever.
Yeah. Barbarians pretty gross, huh?
Sorry, daughter.
-You do not deserve a warrior's death.
-Huh?
-Hey, you okay?
-Do you think that's him?
-I-- I-- I don't know.
I mean, there's probably
so many barbarians out here
fighting the mist.
-Hmm.
-Oh, Great Puma Warrior…
-Hmm?
-…will you join our quest?
-Oh, hey! We come in peace.
-Whoa. Magic axes?
-I can clip him.
We're not here to fight you, Puma Warrior.
Terebro!
Come on, man. You gotta do
better than that. You're embarrassing me.
Okay, all right.
I'll try it.
Fire and heat mi gente.
Let these axes be caliente.
-Dang, hombre, you made of stone?
He's definitely not in
a talking mood. Maya?
-Eeh!
-Uh, a little help here?
Is pale girl a ghost?
Thank you, Chimi.
I had to stop him.
He was scaring the spider.
Huh?
Everything okay, little eight legs.
We just want to talk.
Picchu listen.
Please no make Picchu
regret not killing you.
Need brave Puma Warrior
from Barbarian Kingdom.
Warrior help with Divine Gate.
King and Princess say
you greatest warrior.
Big. Strong.
Wow.
-I didn't know you were bilingual.
-Teca girl not good at convincing.
We're gonna fight so many gods.
They'll try to stop us
from destroying the Divine Gate,
but we have to do it to save the world,
and we're probably all gonna die!
Much more convincing.
Push the death angle.
Yeah. That's a great selling point.
-Picchu and his axes will join quest.
-Really?
-Just like that?
Long time now,
Picchu and axes wait for noble cause.
But now mist send you to Picchu.
This noble cause Picchu wait for.
Picchu fight by your side,
maybe die honorable warrior death.
Mm-hmm.
See, we were all kind of seeing
the "probably gonna die" part
as a negative.
Picchu not fear death.
Because death is beautiful.
Death is beautiful?
Gold has value because it's rare.
Life has value because it's short.
Death gives life value.
Bone girl smart. Picchu get ready now.
Um, Maya. Yeah, come here.
This guy's nuts! He's nuts!
Like, sure, he has magic axes,
but is he gonna
murder us all in our sleep? Hm?
-Wow.
-And how do we know for sure
-he's really the Puma Warrior?
-Your chest, it's--
Impressive.
Mm-hmm. You know, some women
like more of a… a narrow, pinched chest.
Yeah, yeah. Like mine.
I mean, that's what I heard.
That proves it.
You really are the Puma Warrior!
-My parents are not gonna believe this.
She's done it!
She found all three warriors!
Ooh. I'm really craving
some goat stew and sweet ants.
Huh? Uh-oh.
We're gonna need a bigger pyramid.
Ah, that-- That was a long bath.
Like, really long.
Hmm, seems fine to me.
Me too.
Huh?
I am Maya, princess of the Tecas,
Great Eagle from the prophecy.
I'm Chimi.
Uh…
Chimi, cursed Skull Warrior,
outcast of the Jungle Lands.
-I'm Rico.
Yep. Magic Rooster Wizard
of the Luna Island.
-Ah!
-You're supposed to just tap it!
-Hm.
I am Picchu.
Okay. We go now. Follow Picchu.
Also, uh, tell Picchu which way to go.
We go to Teca to join my parents,
then will we all destroy
the Divine Gate together.
That way.
And by that way,
I meant that way.
Maya and the Three are ready.
Onward!
-Steady.
-Picchu, no, no!
-Ah! Huh?
-He's with us.
I missed you too.
Whoa!
You know giant cat?
-Yes. Chiapa's my friend. He protects me.
Look more like you protect him.
He had a bad time in the last battle.
-He's working through some things.
-Picchu understand Chiapa.
He's always been brave.
But he shows more bravery than ever now.
Because even though he's afraid,
he's brave enough to keep trying.
Rico understand Chiapa.
-Man!
What'd I ever do to you?
Huh? Giant cats be crazy.
Chimi want to ride Picchu?
Uh, say what now?
Arf?
Uh, like Chiapa.
Oh no. Then-- Then what you do, Chimi?
I tried to save my animal family.
So the Jungle King
really did take away everything?
And now you just have nothing?
I have the darkness,
the cold, the screaming void of despair.
My sole companion is death.
Well, death and this spider.
Nope, just death.
Oh.
And that's why you wanna
meet the goddess of death.
My mother died
as I was coming into the world.
-The greatest tragedy of my life and hers
was my birth.
I want the goddess of death
to introduce me to my mother.
I guess… I just want to apologize to her
for being born.
Ay.
This is the most I've ever talked
to anyone in my life. I don't like it.
-How do you do it?
-The key is not to listen to yourself.
-So, Chimi,
um, at least you have a tree, right?
They left Rico with nothing
just because he made
one little mistake as a kid.
-I deserve to be left with nothing.
-Huh?
-Look, I had nothing
before the Gran Brujo.
Look, he found me.
I lived on the streets eating garbage.
My only friend was a dead raccoon.
Made my clothes out of mud,
and then the goats, they ate 'em.
Look, I hate goats.
Gran Brujo took me in, gave me food,
a roof over my head.
He believed in me.
Then one day, I…
I killed him with forbidden Peasant Magic.
I'm sorry.
The only thing I had
to remember the Gran Brujo by was Estefan.
And now he's broken.
Just like me.
You still have cool hair.
True that.
So, Picchu, fighting the mist, huh?
Oh, what's the deal with that?
Picchu?
You do not deserve a warrior's death.
-Are you okay?
Picchu family gone forever,
all because Picchu show mercy.
Now nothing left for Picchu
but die warrior death.
Then be with family again.
Oh.
Just wondering, you're not actually
planning to get yourself killed, are you?
-No. Picchu die warrior death.
Never give up.
Fight till the end.
Maybe live for cause. Maybe die for cause.
Sometimes when you fight, maybe you die.
Die so friends live.
That okay.
Give life value.
Like bone girl say.
No one's going to die.
Maya's right.
Look, we will fight side by side
and live to tell about it.
And I'll make the G-- Gran Brujo proud.
And I'll get to meet my mother.
And Picchu maybe die a little?
That's my ma--
-Ow!
We all have purpose now…
uh, to destroy the Divine Gate,
and-- and save the world.
Yeah!
Each finger is weak, but together,
we shall make a mighty fist of fury.
-Yeah!
It's a mission for us all…
n-not just for me.
Yeah?
So, um, so, hey, you know, now that
we've heard everyone's totally true story
where they're not lying except…
Oh, Chiapa.
Chiapa, why don't you tell them
about yourself?
The saddest story Picchu ever hear.
That part about the huitlacoche
and the two birds was funny though.
-You, noble bones girl.
-What did you call me?
What you do good? Maya fight good.
Scrawny boy do magic good, talk too much.
Scrawny? It's Rico, thank you.
And you know what? I don't talk too much.
-No-- No one's ever--
-Giant cat have giant teeth.
What skull girl do good?
-What?
-Go stand over there.
Noble bones girl true artista.
Thank you. And if you call me noble again,
I'll shoot you in the heart.
Hmm.
But first I need my arrows back.
Oh, oh, oh, right, right.
My brothers,
I hope you can hear me.
These warriors, they're my friends,
and I-- I'm-- I lied to them.
And I'm probably
leading them to their doom.
-But I must avenge you.
Am I-- Am I doing the right thing?
Brothers?
-No, Maya. It's me.
-You!
How dare you sneak up on me?
-Sneak up on you?
I was in front of you. Huh?
Yeah, well, we can't all
see in the dark, bat eyes.
Huh. You're pretty good.
Hm. I'm gonna use Eagle Claw to kill you.
Yeah? Well, Crimson Moon won't let you.
-Huh?
Why are we fighting?
-Because I hate you.
-Ooph!
-Hi-ya!
-And so it ends.
No fair!
You have an unfair advantage.
I'm only half god too, Maya.
-My mother was human.
-She was?
You and I both bridge the two worlds.
Please, Maya. May I ask you again?
Will you help my father
and I destroy Lord Mictlan?
I am the Eagle Warrior
of the Teca prophecy.
-I can do it without you.
-You can't. You need us.
I have what I need.
I have the three prophecy warriors who--
Warriors you have been lying to.
Warriors who might pay with their lives.
So what? We're going through that gate.
Together, we will kill Lord Mictlan.
And I will have my revenge.
-Is that true, Maya?
-You're taking us through the gate.
-To kill the god of war?
Greetings, Rico, Chimi, Picchu.
Greetings, spooky weirdo.
Picchu no like one-eye pretty boy.
Too fancy.
Um…
Oh… H-Hey.
Well, you clearly have…
…things to discuss.
I should go.
Please, consider my offer, Maya.
I know what you think of the gods,
but we're not all monsters.
You know that is exactly
what a monster would do, right?
Be well,
Princess Maya. I'll see you soon.
-Anyway, hi. Are you guys mad?
This whole time,
you've been lying to all of us!
Look, you told me we were going to destroy
the Divine Gate, not go through it!
Technically, I told Chimi
I'd introduce her to the goddess of death.
How else do you think
she'd get to meet her?
-That's not better.
I opened up to you,
and you told me nothing but lies.
This is what I get
for ever trusting a human.
Now Picchu know what Teca girl is good at.
Lying.
Okay, yes, I lied.
But together, we're invincible.
We're… We're the warriors of the prophecy.
Can't you see that?
Picchu still in for mission.
To fight is a noble cause.
But we not friends.
I'm still in too.
I don't have to like you to fight
for my redemption. Liar.
-Do I still meet the goddess of death?
-Unfortunately, yeah, I think we're gonna.
Then I'll do it. For me.
Not for you, serpent tongue.
-That not good.
-Oh no! Teca!
My parents!